title:      HUD Handbook asa Mandatory Not Just Guidance
date:       2023-11-28
tags:       federal  hud
identifier: 20231128T140104
signature:  23a
---------------------------



QUESTION: We are in  Michigan and have a few cases  at trial where the
judge  thinks  that the  HUD  Multi-family  Occupancy Handbook  notice
requirements do not need to be  strictly complied with.  We found some
NY  cases stating  that they  are mandatory  and not  just guidelines.
Would you  know of other  jurisdictions that  say it must  be strictly
complied with  (in particular to  charge market rent).  The  HUD model
lease does  incorporate the penalty  provisions in  Ch. 8, but  we are
looking for further  persuasive authority.  Also, if you  are aware of
any HUD  clips or letters  telling owners  that they must  comply that
would also be very helpful.

In  our cases,  the tenants  are being  charged market  rent when  the
landlord  failed  to provide  all  of  the recert  and/or  termination
notices.  Thank you for your help!

ANSWER:   Raleigh  Housing   Authority   v.   Winston,  Timber   Ridge
v. Caldwell, , and Goler v. Metropolitan are all cases out of NC where
the court found that the landlord?s  failure to comply with HUD notice
requirements was  fatal to the  landlord?s eviction case.  The Winston
case is pretty  recent (2021, NC Supreme Court). I  think Caldwell and
Metropolitan are  both NC Court  of Appeals cases. Winston  was public
housing (24  c.f.r. 966.4),  and I  think Timber  Ridge was  Section 8
Project-Based  Rental Assistance  (24  c.f.r. 247.4).  Not sure  about
Goler.

We  are  getting  a  lot  of  traction  in  NC  off  the  VAWA  notice
requirements in  24 c.f.r.  5.2005 because it  applies to  pretty much
every subsidized  tenancy, and  most landlords are  unaware of  it. We
have a very  recent unpublished opinion from the NC  COA where the COA
reversed the trial  court?s judgment for the landlord based  on LL not
complying with the VAWA notice  requirements (even though the eviction
case itself was not related to domestic violence). That is attached.

Min, also  take a  look at  Winston affordable  housing v  roberts (NC
supreme court; 2020).   That case involved hud  handbook 4350.3 recert
notices/deadlines.  the court remanded the case because the record was
not clear on compliance with the  recert rules, so therefore could not
determine  if  the rent  that  roberts  allegedly  failed to  pay  was
correctly calculated or not.  john
